# Entry 1
##### November 8, 2021

In the beginning of my freedom project, when my teacher Mr.Mueller asked us what do we want to do, I was thinking about a game. Perhaps a game that is entertaining and easy. Among the tools that he provided to us, the tool called [kaboom](https://kaboomjs.com/) stands out to me. The reason I chose this tool is because I looked at the website and it seems like it was the right tool for me to learn making a platform game. [Platform video game](https://www.idtech.com/blog/10-types-of-platforms-in-platform-video-games) is one that traditionally features 2d graphics in which players control characters who jump or climb between different platforms on the screen. As soon as I decided my tool, I started my research and watched some random [tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4OaHB0JbJDI) from YouTube. I can't really find a video with no spoiler in it, all of them seem to have the actual codes given to make the game, but I actually want to learn how kaboom works first. Thus, I went back to the website and try to break down the codes so I can understand it. However learning Javascript is not easy to me so my mind was completely empty when I'm reading the instructions on the webstie. As a result I continue to watch the video and try to figure out the meaning of the codes. After a few weeks of tinkering, I discussed my idea with my classmate Jingwen and I decided to partner up with her since we both wanted to do the same thing. Our first plan was to create different characters, or sprites that allow the user to control their action and also create an enemy group that might kill the user if they touch it. Jingwen's first thought was to borrow the idea from the South Korean drama Squid Game to make our characters. We try it for fun and later change the thought because we wanted to make our original characters. We are making our process on [repl.it](https://replit.com/@victoriac5469/sep11fp#code/main.js), it is a little behind and slow but learning takes time so we are working on drawing different sprites first. Currently, I'm in stage 1 and 2 of the ***engineering design process***: define and research the problem because we are still in the process of digesting the knowledge from kaboom and making an effort to truly understand it. For ***skills***, I hit on communication because I talked to my partner that I wanted to make our original characters instead of characters from squid game. Also, embracing failure was another skill I learned, I noticed that even though platform games are simple, they are not easy for js beginner like us to make.

[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
